In today’s technical and fast era of internet, Digital Marketing provides a fabulous platform for showing the talent of people from different parts of country and connecting them to the world. Digital Marketing provides new tools to the people to show different aspects of the company and their products in the marketing world. Digital marketing provides a platform with many advantages to reach the people from different geographical area and let talented people show their talents without such requirements of resources.. The world is super–connected nowadays and all the things considered, marketing and advertising are no more the same as they once were. This is because of the ascent of online networking, which has changed how organizations speak with potential customers.

Digital Marketing is newer field many individuals are curious to know about it. This article contains the complete information about the digital marketing and you are at the right place to read about an it  .  The starting of this tremendous platform was in 1990s and became in trend in 2000s which is continued till now and giving many fresher’s a better start to their career. The whole concept of Digital marketing is all about interacting with the customers by having well-targeted and quantifiable conversation of products or services. Starting from the basic it is  all about the process of promoting brands or products on electronic media. Platforms like mobile phones. Basically it’s the term includes the meeting of the advertising world and the web innovation with different types of media.
Comparative study of traditional and digital marketing 

Everybody is confused with option of taking digital marketing as the way of promoting their products and services. Which way is beneficial for the business point of view and easy to reach the customers mind? This is the main debate in marketing companies during advertising of the product.

Traditional Marketing
Traditional is a broad category that have many forms of marketing and advertising. Most traditional marketing is divided in four categories:
Print
Broadcast                                    
Direct Mail
Telephone
Traditional marketing campaigns often have the advantages of staying power .they became iconic and instantly familiar to the millions of people.
Television is still counted as the most effective form of advertising with radio and print media. On the other hand these means of advertising are expensive and needs a lots of investment on a probability of being successful.
Direct mail have produced a low rate of response that just limited to 2-5%.
Digital marketing

Some benefits that’s why you have to choose digital marketing for your business.
Cost Effective –Startups and small businesses have limited capital and cannot afford to spend such a large amount in compare to the traditional marketing.
 Focused Advertisement Targeting- The customers targeting is a easy task in digital marketing platform based on behavior, interests etc.
Branding- The online focused customers can be attracted using digital marketing technologies and helps in creating a trend it circulates and help in building a base for the company and the product services
Equal Platform-Digital marketing provides an equal platform to all people whether a small startup or a established company they can compete at a same scale of customers.
Better Return On Investment- Investment plays important role in business that’s why small start-ups think about more return than investment. Basically ROI deals with the amount you create from your investment in that project.
No Geographical Border- Digital marketing provides many opportunities to the customers and sellers to communicate without any geographical border. It provides fabulous platform for the company to advertise their products and services all over the world with a great presentation and impact on the customer's mind.
According to the market surveys and analysis in digital marketing have a high business potential, to get good revenue using the digital marketing for your business you can choose digital marketing company in kanpur as DigiBask.

Categories in digital marketing

1.	Search engine optimization(SEO)
2.	Search engine marketing (SEM)
3.	Content marketing 
4.	Social media marketing (SMM)
5.	Pay-per-click advertising (PPC)
6.	Affiliate marketing
7.	Email marketing

Social Media Marketing

For this category you need to write great content, getting to be in touch with needs of the customers their requirements. prepare new and interesting content for them and give information related to your company and services of products 80% of your article or content should branding and promoting whereas 20% of article or content should be about  your product . You can find a great content and support from DigiBask which is the best social marketing Company of kanpur .But at the back of your mid you also think as a customer ad do not over brand your product as you know people hate it.

Search Engine Optimization

It’s a process of getting traffic from the free, organic, editorial or natural search results engines. Writing from a technical point of view it’s a way that your website is built in such order that it is easy for search engine to crawl. This also includes improving the overall usability of the site for the users. By this category of digital marketing anyone can increase the chances of searching their website on any search engine and this all includes about the search engine algorithms which continue to change, making it essential for online business to stay up to date with the best to claim high rankings for the relevant key words.

Search Engine Marketing
 
This is the economical part of the categories here you have to pay for the advertisements on your website, your social media etc. Here you have prepare a proper strategy for attracting the customer. This includes five type of methods to make website optimize:  keyword research and analysis, website search and popularity, back end tools etc. 

Content Marketing
 
Content marketing is a continue process of targeting the communication with the customers without always relating to it with selling. It should be used by the businesses as to inform the customer about the product and services because business should have a loyalty with the buyers about the product.

Pay-Per-Click Advertisement

It is also known as CPC means cost per click. Pay-Per-Click is related to the first-tier search engine such as Google ads ad Bing ads where the advertisers bid on the keyword phrases relevant to their target market. Pay-per-click with cost per impression and cost per order are used to assess cost effectiveness and profit of internet marketing .CPC is calculated by dividing the advertising cost by the number of clicks generated by an advertisement. 

Email Marketing

Email marketing has risen to prominence as one of the most popular forms of marketing .it is a personal and accessible for a variety of companies. Mobile is considered as a comfortable and active platform to communicate with the customers. A good subject line, personalize emails, let them have catchy lines, stick to the product and services details etc. are shorty ticks to write a better email for marketing.

Affiliate Marketing

Affiliate marketing is type of performance-based marketing in which business rewards one or more affiliates for each visitor or customer brought by the affiliates own marketing efforts. Affiliate marketing is the most commercial idea to generate money. Affiliate marketing is one of the most oldest form of digital marketing where you refer someone to any online product and based on your recommendation ,that person buys the product , you receive a commission for that.
